<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## format

An Object containing nested boolean values representing the available input and output formats/methods.

### Examples

```javascript
console.log(sharp.format);
```

Returns **[Object][1]** 

## interpolators

An Object containing the available interpolators and their proper values

Type: [string][2]

### nearest

[Nearest neighbour interpolation][3]. Suitable for image enlargement only.

### bilinear

[Bilinear interpolation][4]. Faster than bicubic but with less smooth results.

### bicubic

[Bicubic interpolation][5] (the default).

### locallyBoundedBicubic

[LBB interpolation][6]. Prevents some "[acutance][7]" but typically reduces performance by a factor of 2.

### nohalo

[Nohalo interpolation][8]. Prevents acutance but typically reduces performance by a factor of 3.

### vertexSplitQuadraticBasisSpline

[VSQBS interpolation][9]. Prevents "staircasing" when enlarging.

## versions

An Object containing the version numbers of libvips and its dependencies.

### Examples

```javascript
console.log(sharp.versions);
```

## vendor

An Object containing the platform and architecture
of the current and installed vendored binaries.

### Examples

```javascript
console.log(sharp.vendor);
```

## cache

Gets or, when options are provided, sets the limits of *libvips'* operation cache.
Existing entries in the cache will be trimmed after any change in limits.
This method always returns cache statistics,
useful for determining how much working memory is required for a particular task.

### Parameters

*   `options` **([Object][1] | [boolean][10])** Object with the following attributes, or boolean where true uses default cache settings and false removes all caching (optional, default `true`)

    *   `options.memory` **[number][11]** is the maximum memory in MB to use for this cache (optional, default `50`)
    *   `options.files` **[number][11]** is the maximum number of files to hold open (optional, default `20`)
    *   `options.items` **[number][11]** is the maximum number of operations to cache (optional, default `100`)

### Examples

```javascript
const stats = sharp.cache();
```

```javascript
sharp.cache( { items: 200 } );
sharp.cache( { files: 0 } );
sharp.cache(false);
```

Returns **[Object][1]** 

## concurrency

Gets or, when a concurrency is provided, sets
the number of threads *libvips'* should create to process each image.

The default value is the number of CPU cores,
except when using glibc-based Linux without jemalloc,
where the default is `1` to help reduce memory fragmentation.

A value of `0` will reset this to the number of CPU cores.

The maximum number of images that can be processed in parallel
is limited by libuv's `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE` environment variable.

This method always returns the current concurrency.

### Parameters

*   `concurrency` **[number][11]?** 

### Examples

```javascript
const threads = sharp.concurrency(); // 4
sharp.concurrency(2); // 2
sharp.concurrency(0); // 4
```

Returns **[number][11]** concurrency

## queue

An EventEmitter that emits a `change` event when a task is either:

*   queued, waiting for *libuv* to provide a worker thread
*   complete

### Examples

```javascript
sharp.queue.on('change', function(queueLength) {
  console.log('Queue contains ' + queueLength + ' task(s)');
});
```

## counters

Provides access to internal task counters.

*   queue is the number of tasks this module has queued waiting for *libuv* to provide a worker thread from its pool.
*   process is the number of resize tasks currently being processed.

### Examples

```javascript
const counters = sharp.counters(); // { queue: 2, process: 4 }
```

Returns **[Object][1]** 

## simd

Get and set use of SIMD vector unit instructions.
Requires libvips to have been compiled with liborc support.

Improves the performance of `resize`, `blur` and `sharpen` operations
by taking advantage of the SIMD vector unit of the CPU, e.g. Intel SSE and ARM NEON.

### Parameters

*   `simd` **[boolean][10]**  (optional, default `true`)

### Examples

```javascript
const simd = sharp.simd();
// simd is `true` if the runtime use of liborc is currently enabled
```

```javascript
const simd = sharp.simd(false);
// prevent libvips from using liborc at runtime
```

Returns **[boolean][10]** 

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nearest-neighbor_interpolation

[4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bilinear_interpolation

[5]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bicubic_interpolation

[6]: https://github.com/jcupitt/libvips/blob/master/libvips/resample/lbb.cpp#L100

[7]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acutance

[8]: http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/268086/

[9]: https://github.com/jcupitt/libvips/blob/master/libvips/resample/vsqbs.cpp#L48

[10]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[11]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number
